---
layout: post
title:  "Ramsay Lol-Steward gets into tepid water"
date:   2022-06-13 07:43:31 +0100
categories: miscellaneous
---
Equilibrium is a delicate thing, and sometimes what appears to be a most satisfactory situation turns out to be entirely unsatisfactory for reasons that only become apparent when you have time for a post mortem. Precisely this situation occurred this morning when, after pampering my delicate form in a shower of delightfully warm water, I reached for the tap to cut the flow, only to have quite rapid feedback that my input had actually caused a different output of the Baltic variety. I would have been mortified had I been able to see the effect of my uncomfortably loud and surprisingly high-pitched outburst on the modest ladies in the cobbled street below, as I stepped out of the glistening bath without regard for a landing site. This is the point I chose for my aforementioned post mortem as I took advantage of a few moments of quiet reflection on the wet, and really very hard tiles of the bathroom floor and easy it was there to see in my mind’s eye, the preferable tap.

During this brief period of intense concentration on the pain in my right knee and left wrist, I just glimpsed the corner of an inkling that another equilibrium might have one of its wooden wheels loose and a bit rattly.

The wagon that wheel belonged to was my erstwhile friend and, I suppose you might say, business partner; Vinegar Aldred. I know, I know, the first name is one that pulls your belt out and squirts squirty cream down your trousers when you’re introduced, and while you think about what to say it tugs at the nose hairs of your concentration so that you vacillate between asking about their name and admiring their intriguing outfit.

Firstly, to make it clear Vinegar is of course a nickname and, as you might expect, it does relate to a very pronounced tendency they exhibit in making people wince like they’ve swallowed a wasp, or indeed, downed a quarter gill of vinegar. Examples of their nothing-is-off-limits style of flim-flam includes hits such as when they introduced themselves at our first meeting by drawing my attention to the fact that if we were dogs we’d get all the information we need to become friends just from sniffing each other’s bottoms. A little further down the charts is the one where they pinched the hanky from my hand, sneezed into it and popped it back in my hand before I had the chance to get my hand out of the way and do a proper grimace. All such wrinkly-lip exploits are combined with a party-popper of a laugh exposing not just lipstick-covered teeth but also a revue of gums, lips and even that little dangly thing at the back of their throat.

That meeting, while the social equivalent of asking the visitors to do the washing-up before they go, was also a revelation, because I had never met a person with such consummate disregard for other people’s boundaries and that opened my eyes to some possibilities. 

Outside, the rain had been converted to a fine mist of the kind that made you wetter than being in a downpour and got into your ears and on your eyelids. It also made the cobbles slippy, like when you stand on that green seaweed on the rocks on the beach. Not as bad maybe, but kind of like it.

The point of the story is that it is right and fortunate that when people tell someone else a secret in confidence, it’s good that we don’t usually find out. What would happen if we did? What if there was even a way of finding out?

The main character is emotionally fragile, with a tendency to make a situation worse by worrying too much over small details and missing he important big picture.
When challenged he is more likely to step back and avoid the situation than to confront it. This makes him a target for the type of controlling people that he finds stressful, but also makes it harder to keep relationships going with people he is more likely to get on with. Having access to a pile of secrets just makes life all the more challenging for him and the story follows his attempts to overcome a situation he is ill-equipped to tackle.

His understanding of the world is challenged when, by hideous coincidence, he is sent a cache of emails from his erstwhile friend Vinegar Aldred that reveal why they often displayed such outright animosity towards him. Although for many, this would provide the perfect opportunity to understand and resolve the crisis, the extra information plays to Lol-Stewart’s most tried and tested failings. The emails were not particularly contentious, the problem was more that once he’d seen them, he couldn’t unsee them. They were stashed in a little safe-deposit locker in his mind that had been ransacked by a gang of criminals of the stripey jersey variety and now all the doors were open and money and jewellery was strewn over the floor and the idea that he could put everything back was as likely as completing Wordle in three goes.

The emails came from V&A (that’s what he called Vinegar). They were part of what’s known as a “conversation”, where all the emails that have been sent under the one subject are shown as one stream without all the other stuff that is stuck on the top and the bottom. The idea is to make emails behave like a conversation so that you can look through the whole lot in one go without having to open and close loads of emails. The problem is when you want to forward only part of that email to someone else, it’s not always entirely clear which part is included in the stuff that you’re forwarding on to someone else. Let’s say you are having a lengthy chat with your pal and at one point he just happens to make a very earnest point about how he doesn’t want you to invite your older sister to his party because she’s so dull, and he goes on to say that she will bring down the atmosphere and even offers a couple of humorous anecdotes that you don’t expressly disagree with as she’s your sister and you happen to know she’s not known for her merry disposition. Absolutely normal for a couple of mates to talk scathingly about your sis but when she has a peek at your 20 email chain from 8 paces, you can be sure she’ll spot the offending sentence in a number of seconds that is less than one and has to be expressed down to four decimal places to be visible. Indeed her interest in those few sentences, while trivial to the two correspondents, would be at double digit level of the on the Richter scale to your fun-challenged sister.

